According to the statistics of 2017, the structure of Viet Nam’s economy is as follows: agriculture, forestry, and aquaculture account for 15.34%; industrial and construction area account for 33.34%; service area accounts for 41.32%. In particular, agriculture, forestry, and aquaculture, construction play essential roles, occupying a significant share and they are trendy. Most of the models in these industries are affected by the weather, and local weather forecasts are of great benefit. Along with the development of the Internet of Things models in the industry, the demand for weather forecasts is increasing. However, there is currently no simple system to meet this need.
The current solution to this problem is using National weather forecasting channels. An advantage of this solution is that it is no need for additional hardware. It is entirely free because forecast information is published on media channels. However, there is a disadvantage that the forecast information from National weather forecasting channels is not completely correct for all local areas.
The thesis "Local weather forecasting system using neural network" focus on forecasting the weather for a small localised area using a neural network, personalising for users, serving for family and small businesses.
The system includes a central device and other environmental monitoring devices that collect data and transmit to the central device using LoRa technology - the new wireless, long-range transmission technology. The thesis using Neural Network as the main algorithm for forecasting weather with input data collected from the environment such as temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, the hour in the day, month in the year, rainfall, wind direction and wind speed. The system also has a web server so that users can connect to when they have internet.
This thesis report contains five chapters:
    Chapter 1: Overview
    Chapter 2: Theory and Experimental Study
    Chapter 3: System Analysis and Design
    Chapter 4: Result and Summary
    Chapter 5: Future work