BACKGROUND

Today, global climate change is day-by-day increasingly affecting people's lives. Climate change has caused serious disasters such as tsunamis, earthquakes, floods, etc. So, it is imperative to find solutions to prevent and minimize damage caused by those disasters.

According to statistics in 2017, the South China Sea has 16 storms and 4 tropical depression with 6 storms directly affect Vietnam. Natural disasters in 2017 left 386 dead and missing, 654 injured; More than 8000 houses collapsed; Total economic losses is about 60000 billion. Particularly, the typhoon No. 12, which landed on November 4, 2017, caused losses of more than VND1,300 billion in Khanh Hoa province.

The reason is that Vietnam is located in the Tropical monsoon climate region, Pacific belt, next to the South China Sea is, it's inevitable that the storm often occurs. In addition, rivers in Vietnam is often short and steep, when it's heavy rain, the water rises rapidly, causing landslide and flash floods. Besides, there are many activities in Vietnam that depend on weather forecasting information like agriculture, fisheries, construction, etc. For example: In construction, repairing the building after a sudden rain will increase the cost of construction as well as reduce the quality. Therefore, monitoring the weather before construction is very important and there are many companies pay attention to. With a project under construction in Thu Duc district, based on weather forecasting results on the Web site of the National Hydro - Meteorological Forecasting Center (http://www.nchmf.gov.vn), it will not rain at the time of pouring concrete. However, the weather information is only collected at Weather Monitoring Station located at Tan Son Nhat Airport (10°49'01.2"N 106°40'01.2"E), the results are only accurate for the area around Tan Binh district. At a distance of nearly 20 km, the accuracy of this result is no longer guaranteed.

Therefore, the need for a local weather forecasting system  is extremely urgent.