- What is machine learning?

   + Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence in the field of computer science that often uses statistical techniques to give computers the ability to "learn" (i.e., progressively improve performance on a specific task) with data, without being explicitly programmed.
   + The name machine learning was coined in 1959 by Arthur Samuel. Evolved from the study of pattern recognition and computational learning theory in artificial intelligence, machine learning explores the study and construction of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data – such algorithms overcome following strictly static program instructions by making data-driven predictions or decisions, through building a model from sample inputs. Machine learning is employed in a range of computing tasks where designing and programming explicit algorithms with good performance is difficult or infeasible; example applications include email filtering, detection of network intruders or malicious insiders working towards a data breach, optical character recognition (OCR), learning to rank, and computer vision.
   + Machine learning is closely related to (and often overlaps with) computational statistics, which also focuses on prediction-making through the use of computers. It has strong ties to mathematical optimization, which delivers methods, theory and application domains to the field. Machine learning is sometimes conflated with data mining, where the latter subfield focuses more on exploratory data analysis and is known as unsupervised learning. Machine learning can also be unsupervised and be used to learn and establish baseline behavioral profiles for various entities and then used to find meaningful anomalies.
   + Within the field of data analytics, machine learning is a method used to devise complex models and algorithms that lend themselves to prediction; in commercial use, this is known as predictive analytics. These analytical models allow researchers, data scientists, engineers, and analysts to "produce reliable, repeatable decisions and results" and uncover "hidden insights" through learning from historical relationships and trends in the data.

- To introduce the machine learning, I rely on its relationship with the following three concepts:
   1. Machine learning vs Artificial Intelligence (or AI).
   2. Machine learning vs Big Data.  
   3. Machine learning vs predict the future.

   + Artificial Intelligence: 
        a. AI is a phrase that is both close and alien to us. Close because the world is feverish with technologies labeled AI. It's strange because a real AI is still out of our reach. Speaking to AI, everyone would associate a different image. Recent decades have seen a change in the face of AI in international films. In the past, filmmakers regularly included robotic images in films (such as the Terminator), which aimed to sow the viewer's mind that artificial intelligence was a human way of cloning humans mechanically. However, in movies closer to the subject, such as Transcendence by Johnny Depp in the lead, we do not see the image of a robot at all. Instead, it was a gigantic computer brain that commanded tens of thousands of nanobots, called Singularity. Of course both images are fictional and fictional, but such changes also partly reflect the change of human notions about AI. AI is now considered invisible, or in other words, able to carry any shape. Talking about AI is about a brain, not a body, a software, not a hardware.
	b. In academia, as a whole, AI is a science that was born with the purpose of making computers intelligible. This goal is still vague because not everyone agrees with a unified definition of intelligence. Scientists must define some more specific goals, one of which is to make the computer trick the Turing Test. The Turing Test was created by Alan Turing (1912-1954), who is considered the father of modern computer science, to distinguish whether the opposite is human or not.
	c. AI represents a human goal. Machine learning is a tool that is expected to help people achieve that goal. And the reality is that machine learning has brought people far away on the road to conquer AI. But there is still a long way to go. Machine learning and AI are closely related, but not necessarily coincidental, on the one hand, and on the other hand on machine learning. Conquering AI is still the ultimate goal of machine learning.
   + Big data:
	a. Big Data is not a legitimate science. It is a folk phrase and is acclaimed by the media to indicate the explosion of data today. It is no different from the terms "industrial revolution", "software era". Big Data is an inevitable consequence of the increasing number of Internet connections. With the advent of social networking, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, the need to share human growth through a dizzying. Youtube can also be considered a social network where people share videos and comment on the content of the video.
	b. Explosion of information is not the only reason for the introduction of Big Data. Remember that Big Data has been around for a few years now, but the amount of data that has accumulated since the Internet came out at the end of last century is not small. But then people sit around a pile of data and do not know what to do with them apart from archiving and copying. Until one day, scientists realized that the data contained a huge amount of knowledge. That knowledge can help us understand more about people and society. From a person's favorite movie list, we can draw out the person's preferences and present those films he has never seen before, but in line with his interests. From the search list of the internet community we will know the hot topic is being interested and will focus more information on the issue. Big Data only really begins when we understand the value of information contained in the data, and have the resources and technology to exploit them on a massive scale. And it's no surprise that machine learning is a key component of that technology. Here we have a mutual relation between machine learning and Big Data: machine learning is further developed thanks to the increase in data volume of Big Data; Conversely, the value of Big Data depends on the ability to exploit knowledge from machine learning data. 
    
- Machine learning tasks
Machine learning tasks are typically classified into two broad categories, depending on whether there is a learning "signal" or "feedback" available to a learning system:
  + Supervised learning: The computer is presented with example inputs and their desired outputs, given by a "teacher", and the goal is to learn a general rule that maps inputs to outputs. As special cases, the input signal can be only partially available, or restricted to special feedback:
     . Semi-supervised learning: the computer is given only an incomplete training signal: a training set with some (often many) of the target outputs missing.
     . Active learning: the computer can only obtain training labels for a limited set of instances (based on a budget), and also has to optimize its choice of objects to acquire labels for. When used interactively, these can be presented to the user for labeling.
     . Reinforcement learning: training data (in form of rewards and punishments) is given only as feedback to the program's actions in a dynamic environment, such as driving a vehicle or playing a game against an opponent.
  + Unsupervised learning: No labels are given to the learning algorithm, leaving it on its own to find structure in its input. Unsupervised learning can be a goal in itself (discovering hidden patterns in data) or a means towards an end (feature learning).



[.] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning