RELATED WORK

International research
Predicting the weather has long been a common problem for mankind. There have been many advances in meteorological and hydrographic science and invent modern equipment. But local weather forecasting is not popular. Most local weather forecasting devices in the market used to notify the weather state or get weather information from the Internet. And they also have the same disadvantages as solutions mentioned above.
The article "Neural Network training model for weather forecasting using Fireworks Algorithm" by Saktaya Suksri and Warangkhana Kimpan, published at the International Computer Science and Engineering Conference (ICSEC) on 14-17 Dec. 2016, presents the method using the Artificial Neural Networks model with the supervised learning paradigm to predict the mean daily temperature values with the input data for the meteorological station located in Bangkok. The Artificial Neural Network model was trained by the Fireworks algorithm - the ANN optimization algorithm developed by the Swarm Intelligence Algorithm. However, the article focuses on algorithm development and research rather than product development.
At Georgia Southern University, author Andrew Culclasure has published the Master thesis "Using Neural Networks to Provide Local Weather Forecasts" in Electronic Theses & Dissertations Georgia Southern University Spring 2013. The thesis focuses on performing a survey on  Weather forecasting models using ANN. In addition, the subject also introduced an author's experiment on the use of ANN for predicting temperature. However, the topic is focused on surveying.
Author Kumar Abhishek with article named "Weather Forecasting Model using Artificial Neural Network", published on Procedia Technology magazine Volume 4, 2012, Pages 311-318, presents considering the possibility of the method that uses ANN with different transmission parameters, different number of hidden layers and neurons in the weather prediction, especially the maximum temperature in a year.


Domestic research
Vietnam is located in an area where the weather is complex, frequent floods occur, especially Central and South Vietnam. However, most meteorological stations in Vietnam are large scale and not developed in each locality. Pieces of equipment are imported from abroad with high cost and the accuracy is not high due to the large scope of monitoring. Besides, the number of the meteorological station is quite a few.
In Vietnam Maker Contest with Intel Galileo 2015 (VMIG 2015), the team from Hanoi University of Science won the 3rd prize with a project named "Trạm quan trắc môi trường và cảnh báo sớm thiên tai" (Environmental monitoring station and warning of natural disasters). The system includes 3 main components: sensors, central processing board which is Intel Galileo and a website. This research is highly appreciated by the judges, but the system still has some disadvantages that it cannot predict natural disaster in advance.
Mimosatek company won the 1st prize in Venture Cup Contest 2015 with a product named "Hệ thống quản lý tưới chính xác", a device used to measure environmental values, process the information and calculate the amount of water the plant needs. All of the processes are managed and controlled via smartphones. But this system just measures environmental values at that point to water the plant reasonable and warn the users. It cannot predict the weather in advance.