	Ch. Jyosthna Devi et al., 2012 presented an ANN based
algorithm for predicting the temperature [1]. The BPN is used
because it can fairly approximate a large class of functions.
Authors propose a model which takes real time dataset with
fifteen parameters as input, which is then normalized using
min-max normalization to scale data between zeros to one.
Then it is trained and tested using the Backpropagation Neural
Network. The results are compared with the meteorological
department to check the least error and accuracy of the model.
It is found that the model has the potential for temperature
forecasting.
	Anomaly in this paper is that, it does not predict the complete
weather condition like rainfall, clouds, etc.




	Rainfall forecasting was done using Ensemble neural network
(ENN) by Harshani R. K. Nagahamulla et al., 2012 [2]. In
ENN, finite numbers of ANN are trained for the same task
and their results are combined using the weighted average
method. Here, each ANN is assigned a weight to minimize
mean square error. The study area selected to be Colombo,
where daily observed data of forty one years was used by
dividing it in four climatic seasons every year with twenty six
variables. The performance is compared with
Backpropagation neural network (BPN), radial basis function
network (RBFN) and general regression neural network
GRNN). Results show that, ENN model predicts rainfall more
accurately than individual BPN, RBFN and GRNN.
	The paper compares ANN with BPN, RBFN and GRNN and
the comparison shows that ANN gives more accuracy
compared to others.


	A research was conducted by M. Nasseri et al., 2008 [3], in
which they developed Feed forward type network to forecast
rainfall using the backpropagation algorithm coupled with the
Genetic Algorithm (GA). The study area selected was Sydney,
Australia consisting fourteen recording rain gauges of four
years data. Measurements of rainfall were at intervals of five
minutes. After preliminary data analysis, twenty six storm
events were selected for synchronization. Among which
eighteen events were selected for training and four for testing.
This paper concludes that multilayer perceptron (MLP) type
network coupled with GA performs better than MLP type
network alone.
	It compares the performance of Multilayer Perceptron type
networks and itself combined with GA. Thus, found that
adding GA to MLP improves performance.




	R Lee et al., 2004 [4] proposed an innovative, intelligent,
multi-agent based environment named as intelligent Java
Agent Development Environment (iJADE). It is used for
weather prediction of eleven weather stations in Hong Kong
using five years data which provides more than 7300 data
records. The model uses GA for input node selection, a fuzzy
classification for rainfall parameters and neural network for
training using a BPN. Its experimental results are more
promising than single point sources using similar network and
other networks like Radial Basis Function Network, Learning
Vector Quantization and Naive Bayesian Network. Authors
compare ANN with RBF, LVQ and Naive Bayesian Network
and prove that ANN results are better as compared to others.





	Mohsen hayati et al., 2007 [5] uses ANN for one day ahead
prediction of temperature. Here multilayer perceptron (MLP)
is trained using 65% of patterns and tested using 35% of
patterns for ten years meteorological data from Iran which
was split into four seasons namely spring, summer, fall and
winter. MLP network of three layers with sigmoid transfer
function for hidden layers and linear transfer function for
output layer is used. Number of hidden neurons and epochs
were decided using the trial and error method. This paper
concludes that MLP with this structure has minimum
prediction error, good performance and reasonable prediction
accuracy. The above paper uses historical data for ten years
and achieves minimum error and reasonable accuracy.




	Kumar Abhishek et al., 2012 [6] develops an ANN model to
forecast average monthly rainfall. He selected data from
Udupi, Karnataka which is eight months data for fifty years
making 400 entries for input and output. The data is
normalized by finding mean and standard deviation of each
parameter. Then training is done on 70% of data and the
remaining 30% data is used for testing and validation. The
model used is a three layered ANN with backpropagation
learning. Later after testing, the results are compared with
actual output. It showed higher degree of similarity in output.
Thus it is proved that ANN model is accurate in prediction.
Authors concluded that, learngdm is the best learning function
for training whereas trainlm is the best training function.
The data used for research is huge enough i.e. of fifty years,
thus, lager input data reduced the mean square error.




	Yamin Wang et al., 2013 [7] proposes a novel wind speed
forecasting method based on ensemble empirical mode
decomposition (EEMD) and Genetic algorithm –
backpropagation Neural network.
The wind speed data recorded after every ten minutes is taken
for five days which gives a total of 721 data for testing. The
wind speed data is first decomposed by EEMD in eight 
different IMF’s and a residue. Later GA –BPNN is used for
forecasting each IMF. Then IMF results are combined and
then the forecasting result for wind speed is obtained. Thus,
this method proved to forecast wind speed more precisely as
compared to traditional GA-BP and hybrid of EMD and GABP.
But here the forecasting is done considering only wind speed,
which is not enough for weather forecasting.


	Saima H. et al., 2011[8] reviews many hybrid methods used
for weather forecasting with their merits and demerits. They
used consortiums of statistical and artificial intelligent
methods for achieving accuracy. Different models studied are
1. Hybrid autoregressive moving average (ARMA)
model and ANN for wind speed prediction
2. Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference system (ANFIS)
which is integration of Fuzzy Inference System and
Neural network used for rainfall runoff prediction
3. Fuzzy clustering and Type-2 Fuzzy Logic
4. A Neuro evaluative Interval Type -2 TSK Fuzzy
System
5. Grey Relational Analysis.
In all forecasting models, the major concern is with accuracy
not the processing time. It is observed that not a single
forecasting model can forecast with 100% accuracy, but they
can reduce the accuracy error by various techniques.
Authors have compared all the techniques with their accuracy
and found that no model can be totally accurate but near
optimum results are expected.


	Tony Hall et al., 1999 [9] develops ANN for Probability of
Precipitation (PoP) and Quantitative precipitation forecast
(QPF) for Dallas-fort worth, Texas area. Neural Network was
developed and initially two years data was used consisting
nineteen variables. Later for three years the verification
reports were generated. In this application, two networks are
created, a QPF network for predicting amount of precipitation
and a PoP network for probability or confidence in the
forecast. The networks were designed with three features, first
is a separate network for different seasons like warm and cool,
and second is the use of QPF and PoP and the last is the
network made interactive so we can rerun the entire network
with some changes. This technique improves precipitation
forecast dramatically, particularly for applications requiring
accurate results.
Authors state that QPF and PoP together can improve the
performance.


[1] Ch.Jyosthna Devi, B.Syam Prasad Reddy, K.Vagdhan
Kumar, B.Musala Reddy, N.RajaNayak, “ANN
Approach for Weather Prediction using Back
Propagation,” International Journal of Engineering
Trends and Technology- Volume3Issue1- 2012.
[2] Harshani R. K. Nagahamulla, Uditha R. Ratnayake,
AsangaRatnaweera,” An Ensemble of Artificial Neural
Networks in Rainfall Forecasting,” The International
Conference on Advances in ICT for Emerging Regions -
ICTer 2012: 176-181
[3] M. Nasseri, K. Asghari, M.J. Abedini, “Optimized
scenario for rainfall forecasting using genetic algorithm
coupled with artificial neural network,” Elsevier,
ScienceDirect, Expert Systems with Applications 35
(2008) 1415–1421
[4] R Lee, J Liu, "iJADEWeatherMAN: A Weather
Forecasting System Using Intelligent Multiagent-Based
Fuzzy Neuro Network", IEEE 181 Transactions on
Systems, Man and Cybernetics - Part C: Applications
and Reviews, vol 34, no 3, 369 - 377, August 2004.
[5] Mohsen hayati and Zahra mohebi, “Temperature
Forecasting based on Neural Network Approach”, World
Applied Sciences Journal 2(6): 613-620, 2007, ISSN
1818-4952, IDOSI Publications, 2007.
[6] Kumar Abhishek, Abhay Kumar, Rajeev Ranjan, Sarthak
Kumar, “A Rainfall Prediction Model using Artificial
Neural Network”, IEEE Control and System Graduate
Research Colloquium (ICSGRC 2012), pp 82-87.
[7] Yamin Wang, Shouxiang Wang, Na Zhang, “A Novel
Wind Speed Forecasting Method Based on Ensemble
Empirical Mode Decomposition and GA-BP Neural
Network”, 978-1-4799-1303-9/13/©2013 IEEE.
[8] Saima H., J. Jaafar, S. Belhaouari, T.A. Jillani,
“Intelligent Methods for Weather Forecasting: A
Review”, 978-1-4577-1884-7/11/©2011 IEEE.
[9] Tony Hall, Harold E. Brooks, Charles A. Doswell, ”
Precipitation Forecasting Using a Neural Network”,
Weather and Forecasting, Volume 14, June 1999, pp
338-345