Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict the conditions of the atmosphere for a given location and time. Weather forecasting means any advance information about the probable weather in future is obtained by evaluating the present and past meteorological conditions of the atmosphere.
In weather forecasting, the advance information of weather elements such as the distribution of rainfall, temperature changes, weather thunderstorm hailstorm, snow or frost, sky cover, winds, humidity, cloud, etc is provided.
Weather forecasting on the basis of their validity periods or timescale is classified as follows:

I. Short-range weather forecast 

Forecasting of coming weather for 2 to 3 days in advance is called short-range weather forecasting. Weather phenomena for which forecast are issued under this type is:
• Rise and fall in temperature
• Speed and direction of the wind
• Cloudiness
• Rainfall amount
This type of weather forecast is issued by India Meteorological Department, Delhi for different regions throughout the country. The error in forecast ranges from 20-30 percent. 

II. Medium-range weather forecast

Forecasting of weather 4-10 days in advance is termed as medium-range forecasting. Presently, medium range weather forecasting for 4 days in advance is issued by National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF) situated in NOIDA, U.P. This forecast is issued twice a week i.e. on Tuesday and Friday forecast error ranges from 30 to 40 percent. Weather phenomena on which weather forecast is issued are as follow:
• Increase or decrease in maximum and minimum temperature
• Cloudiness
• Speed and direction of wind
• Precipitation amount

III. Long-range weather forecast

Forecasting of coming weather for more than 10 days or a month or a season in advance is called long-range weather forecasting. It may also be categorized as a monthly forecast or seasonal forecast depending on the time. Long-range forecasting is issued by India Meteorological Department, New Delhi for southwest monsoon rains, first in April and then the forecast is updated in July. This forecast is issued region is divided into four zones: (1) Northeastern region (2) Central region (3) North Western Region (4) Peninsular region. The forecasting error varied around 40 percent. The weather parameters on which forecast have been issued as under:
The onset of monsoon rains
Deviation of rainfall amount from long period average (LPA) rainfall 

IV. Methods of weather forecasting
1. Synoptic method:
2. Analogue method:
3. Persistence method: 
4. Climatological Method:
5. Statistical methods: 
6. Numerical weather prediction methods: 

In the Agricultural Meteorological Curriculum Document (Ðoàn Van Ði?m - editor) of Agricultural University 1, in chapter XI, section 1.3b, weather phenomena showing signs of rain and thunderstorms is mentioned as followings:

Weather phenomena show good weather
    The air pressure increases constantly, or less variation in the day
    It less cloudy at night, many stars
    In the morning, there are many cumulus clouds, flat rattan legs, dome-shaped roofs, almost standing still
    During the day, cumulus clouds increase but develop weakly vertically. Cloudy peaks have unclear contours and develop strongly around 15-16 hours. The peak of the cumulus cloud can be low, the cloudy feet spread out and fade away.
    The cumulus clouds are almost motionless; The amount of clouds does not increase over time or develop in a certain direction.
    Cumulus clouds form a wide area covering a part of the sky with a clear border.
    The daily variation of the temperature is evident. During the day, the air temperature increases moderately. At night the temperature drops due to the ground.
    In the hot season, there is a lot of fog in the evening, the night dew and salt fog form.
    In the coastal area, there is wind and earth - sea, windy mountain areas - strong blowing valley is a symptom of good weather.
    In the morning, dawn appears yellow light, sometimes dawn may start with a light red color, but then also turn yellow to show that the sun's rays meet relatively little steam on the way.   
Weather phenomena tell the rain
    Air pressure is constantly decreasing
    Cumulus clouds move quickly and are in a thin, parallel form. The faster clouds move, the faster the weather changes.
    The direction of movement of clouds in high above does not coincide with the wind direction at the bottom.
    At night, the wind is constantly blowing and strengthening.
    In the summer, the amount of clouds increases, the temperature decreases continuously.
    The sky at dawn and sunset is bright red without turning yellow, this phenomenon proves that the atmosphere contains a lot of water.
    
We find that when the pressure drops with low temperature and high humidity, it is a sign of rain. Because when the pressure drops will bring high air pressure to this place in the next 4 hours, these airflows will lead to clouds combined with high humidity and low temperature is a very visible phenomenon when rain.


[1] Giao trinh khi tuong nong nghiep, TS.Doan Van Diem
[2] A Text Book on Agricultural Meteorology By Ram Niwas, Surender Singh, Diwan Singh ML Khichar and Raj Singh 